The Atlantic puffin (Fratercula arctica), also known as the common puffin, is a species of seabird in the auk family.
It is the only puffin native to the Atlantic Ocean; two related species, the tufted puffin and the horned puffin,
are found in the northeastern Pacific. The Atlantic puffin breeds in Quebec, Iceland, Norway, Greenland,
Newfoundland and Labrador, Nova Scotia and the Faroe Islands, and as far south as Maine in the west and
parts of Great Britain in the east. The Atlantic Puffin is most commonly found on the Westman Islands, Iceland.
Although it has a large population and a wide range, the species has declined rapidly, at least in parts of its range,
resulting in it being rated as vulnerable by the IUCN. On land, it has the typical upright stance of an auk. At sea,
it swims on the surface and feeds mainly on small fish, which it catches by diving under water,
using its wings for propulsion.

This puffin has a black crown and back, pale grey cheek patches and white underparts. Its broad, boldly marked
red and black beak and orange legs contrast with its plumage. It moults while at sea in the winter and
some of the bright-coloured facial characteristics are lost, with color returning again during the spring.
The external appearance of the adult male and female are identical, though the male is usually slightly larger.
The juvenile has similar plumage, but its cheek patches are dark grey. The juvenile does not have
brightly coloured head ornamentation, its bill is narrower and is dark-grey with a yellowish-brown tip,
and its legs and feet are also dark. Puffins from northern populations are typically larger than
in the south and these populations are generally considered a different subspecies.

Spending the autumn and winter in the open ocean of the cold northern seas, the Atlantic puffin returns to coastal areas
at the start of the breeding season in late spring. It nests in clifftop colonies, digging a burrow in which
a single white egg is laid. The chick mostly feeds on whole fish and grows rapidly. After about 6 weeks,
it is fully fledged and makes its way at night to the sea. It swims away from the shore and does not return
to land for several years.

